{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f1\froman Times;\f2\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw12220
\paperh14040
\margl400
\margr760
\f1\b0\i0\ul0\ql\fs48\fi0\li1440\gray0\up0\dn0 \
Preliminary 2.0 Release Notes: \
Sound Commands\

\pard\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\fs28\li1440 \
\
\

\pard\b\li720 New Features\

\pard\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\b0\li1440 \
The following are new features that have been added to the Sound commands since Release 1.0.  For further information, see the UNIX manual page for each utility.\

\pard\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\fi-380\li1800 \

\pard\tx1800\fi-360\li1800 ·	A new utility, 
\b sndcompress
\b0 , has been added to compress and decompress soundfiles.  See the Sound release notes for a description of the new compression feature.\
\
·	The 
\b sndconvert
\b0  utility can now convert between any two sampling rates.\
\
·	The 
\b sndinfo
\b0  utility recognizes the new format codes added to the 2.0 Sound Library.\
\
·	A new switch has been added to the 
\b sndrecord
\b0  utility which causes the soundfile's data format to be set to 
\b SND_FORMAT_EMPHASIZED
\b0 .\
\
·	The 
\b sndplay
\b0  utility can play back sounds by sending their samples to the DSP serial port.  Port configuration options can be set with command-line switches.  In addition, compressed soundfiles can be decompressed and played back in real-time.   Finally, linear format soundfiles with sample rates of other than 22,050 kHz or 44,100 kHz are temporarily converted to 44,100 kHz for playback. \
\
\
\

\pard\b\li720 Known Problems\

\pard\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\b0\fi-380\li1800 \
·	Real-time decompression using 
\b sndplay
\b0  does not work reliably in this release.   Also, 
\b sndrecord
\b0  does not support recording compressed files.  Use 
\b sndcompress
\b0  to compress and decompress soundfiles.\
\
·	Compressing with 
\b sndcompress
\b0  may sometimes take a long time to complete.  When this happens, it may also drop some samples near the end of the sound.  Pad the sound with zeros to get around this problem.\
\
·	Sample rate conversion with 
\b sndconvert
\b0  and 
\b sndplay
\b0  is not working in this release.\
\
·	Playing back samples to the DSP serial port with 
\b sndplay
\b0  does not work reliably in this release.\

}
